[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory you are here with me
today i'm going to be answering your
questions and we're going to be talking
all about procrastination
actually doing something with all of
your potential turning into real skills
and then deploying that into the real
world that is my obsession and that is
what we're going to be focused on today
so without further ado here we go the
first question is up
hi tom my name is paul i'm a bodyguard i
work in the security business and i
actually encountered you for the first
time because i worked an event two years
ago in universal city in which you spoke
so that was a good day at work
my dream is the film and television
businesses
so in my spare time i've been writing
screenplays and a graphic novel
manuscript
um the trouble that i have is my work
schedule
can can vary radically week to week so
sometimes i'm doing overnight sometimes
i'm working early mornings and it's
never quite the same
it can be a challenge to get enough
sleep
to exercise maintain my health
maintain my relationship with my wife
and that constant circadian rhythm
disruption is expensive
so
my questions are what strategies would
you suggest to maximize my hustle time
and and what should i tell myself when i
have pages to do
but all i want is to take a nap thanks
tom
all right so you are in a world that i
think everybody can relate to in terms
of
there's often a competing goal in terms
of what you want in the short term
versus what you want in the long term
and one of the coolest quotes i've ever
heard in my life is don't sell out what
you want most for what you want right
now and i think that is a quote to live
by right there
so that's the big one is really making
sure that you are focused and excited
about what it is that you want long term
and even just having a phrase that you
can say to yourself about what it is
that you want most i think would be
hugely beneficial so often people don't
have that level of clarity so when we're
talking about procrastination just the
raw desire to actually see something
through to the end
is going to be critically important now
the rest of what we're talking about is
very mechanistic but i want to go
through it so first of all anything
that's disrupting the rhythm of your day
is going to be wildly problematic
i will answer the question assuming that
there's just absolutely nothing you can
do about that but i want to sneak in a
quick little answer for anybody else
that finds themselves in a similar
situation if there's any way
for you to get out of the situation
where you are constantly having the
rhythm of your day disrupted i highly
encourage it so we're about to go
through how you can regiment the chaos
but first and foremost would be to not
find yourself in the chaos to begin with
and that really does matter in terms of
when i think about my own life and
trying to be as deadly efficient with
every single moment that i have
eliminating disruptions is a big one
okay now assuming that you can't
eliminate the disruptions then you're
gonna need to start building some rules
into your life so that any moment where
you have let's say
that rule might be if i have any
consecutive three minutes where i know
three minutes are available then i'm
going to immediately do x now that x
might be journaling so you keep um
something like evernote on your phone
and you have a topic pre-ordained
something you already know that you're
going to do and whenever you have a gap
because look some gaps just aren't going
to be worth it so if i had a 90 second
gap i may not fuss with it it's going to
take 20 seconds just to get your phone
out and get the app open and have it
refresh and all of that but if you're
really hardcore and you say anytime
where i have a three-minute stretch then
i'm going to make sure that i
immediately begin doing something that's
productive
a big part of making limited windows
like that productive is the following so
first and foremost is having an
important things list and by having that
important things list you're going to be
able to immediately slide into knowing
exactly what you should be doing so that
you don't spend the three minutes just
trying to figure out what it is that
you're going to do so you're going to
have that important things list you're
going to know exactly what you should be
doing you're going to build in some
minimum amount of time where you say
anytime i have this amount of time or
more i'm immediately going to dive into
one of the things in my important things
list now important things list shouldn't
all be just these gargantuan things that
require hours and hours of time you want
to make sure that you have things that
you can do that are long you want to
make sure that you have some things that
are medium and you want to make sure
that you have some things that are short
and when you have that now you can begin
sliding into those some of what you may
be doing in the short maybe researching
something learning more about so you're
talking a lot about film and tv so i can
just tell you right now that i have a
youtube playlist which i also curate
ahead of time so anytime i've got a
brief window it's what i call
transitional moments where i immediately
pick up my phone take it out go into
let's say screenwriting boom i've
already got 20 videos that are just
going to auto play so i only have to
select the next one curate it on that
playlist boom i started going and now
i'm researching another thing that i can
do in very limited windows of time
is i have specific stories that i'm
going to be journaling on and i might
journal for a minute i might journal for
an hour depending on how much time i
have but every second that i spend
working on that i'm able to eat a little
bit more productivity out of it so
that's huge you're going to need to make
sure that you get sleep that's going to
be really critical and then you need to
prioritize things in your life you
mentioned your wife so for me my wife is
number one now not in terms of time
allocation but in terms of importance so
when i know that there's any friction
there i'm going to deal with that first
when there's um you know i need to
capture joy or something to really
reaffirm the relationship and make sure
that it is this beacon of joy and hope
in my life i'm going to do that so
putting your your
values in life in ranked order is going
to be critically important to you all
right in a nutshell that's
the strategy that i would use i hope
that helps report back i think that you
will find that having those things
pre-ordained so that you can at a
moment's notice slip into productivity
is really going to serve you
all right next hi tom thank you for the
opportunity to ask a question my name is
masha
and my question has to do with the
beginning of
work week it's mondays and sometimes
tuesday for me where i seem to lose a
lot of momentum over the weekend
the fact is i do have three small
children and i spend a lot of time with
them on the weekends so comes monday
sometimes
struggle with getting back in the groove
and of course if we lose mondays that's
20 of the whole work week so it seems
seems a bit excessive to lose 20 percent
of productivity just based on the fact
that
weekends might interfere with our
workflow so would you have any
recommendations as to how to combat that
um
so any tips would be wonderful thank you
bye-bye
all right so i love that you've already
got your finger on the fact that if
you're letting a monday slip away or
what most people do which is let a
friday and a monday slip away so friday
they're sliding into party mode and then
monday sort of recovery mode
now you're losing two-fifths of the
entire week so the fact that you're
already aware of what's at stake here is
really um exciting and certainly
encouraging the big thing and this is
why i always tell people there need to
be two things true about the goals
you're trying to accomplish one they
need to be honorable and two they need
to be exciting so we'll set honorable
aside for a second and just focus on
being
just absolutely
committed out of
enthusiasm to accomplishing your goal
and this has been one of the things
that's propelled me the most in my
career is that i legitimately am excited
about the thing that i'm trying to build
and because i value myself for the
sincere pursuit of this thing that is
both exciting to me and honorable in
that it's you know going to lift people
up if i actually accomplish it and i'm
holding myself accountable to actual
results but the game the game which is
the right way to think about it the game
of trying to turn my potential into
usable skills that can
do something tangible in the world to
make that goal that's exciting and
honorable come true because all of that
game is predicated on making sure that i
love the time in the field that i'm
leaving everything out on the field and
i value myself for that i don't value
myself for accomplishing it but i value
myself for actually trying to pursue it
so now you can imagine i'm saying this
stuff to myself all the time so the
weekends are fun and i do wife oriented
things and i'm doing like in your case i
would be doing the things that are
oriented around my kids and i would love
it and i would have work shut off in my
mind and i wouldn't be trying to work
double duty on the weekends i will be
with my kids and then on during the week
i'm gonna be focused on that goal that i
want to be focused on now here is the
catch
if your value system is such that family
time is far more important and exciting
to you than work time you may want to
reevaluate your goals because it may be
that you're trying to convince yourself
to pursue something monday through
friday that actually doesn't resonate
with you now if that's true you've got a
couple different options you can either
find a way to make the stuff that you
want to do with your family for your
family that skill set you can find a way
to make that a big part of your monday
through friday so that it feels like
more of a continuation of the week it
may not be play time and i get it
everybody has to eat and pay your bills
and so you're going to have to find
something to monetize but there are
often things what i call universe of so
if family time quality time with your
kids that's a skill set that you want to
be extraordinary at what's a way where
you could be in the universe of that
skill set those things during the week
so that you saw a direct correlation
between what you do during the week and
then that thing that really matters to
you which is your family time on the
weekend so it could be pursuing a degree
in psychology it could be working at a
daycare it could be teaching you know i
don't know in what way that to you is
sort of the deep passion but that's
another way to approach this there's no
right or wrong goal there is only a goal
that is both exciting and honorable and
gets you amped on monday so that the way
you're pursuing it through the week is
exciting to you and you don't feel like
you're living for the weekend and that's
where people are often falling apart is
there monday through friday is a should
thing it's i should want this i should
pursue this instead of being a
continuation of just the things in life
that they love and the way that i've
tried to structure my life is such that
on the weekend other than spending time
with my wife the most exciting thing
that i can think of to do are the fun
parts of my monday through friday that's
how much i enjoy what i'm pursuing and
what i'm trying to build is that sure
there's overhead look i i will say that
my work life is comprised of 60 overhead
meaning things i don't want to do and 40
things i do want to do but those that 40
is so much fun and the 60 serves that 40
so well that on the weekend i can pull
from that 40 percent and and just be
energized and feel wildly enthusiastic
that it's the best way that i could
spend my totally free time and
that is a sign that you've got things
aligned so that would be my
encouragement if you find yourself
having a hard time revving back up it
tells me that you figured something out
of the weekends that you haven't yet
figured out during the week
find a way to align them
all right next up
hey tom it's kevin
i'm from san jose california and i'm
currently a student
or a senior in high school to be more
specific and my question for you is how
do i turn something that i want to do or
that you know i'm aspiring to do
into something that i don't really have
a choice to do or something that i need
to do and i'm wondering how i'd be able
to turn
for example if i wanted to wake up early
in the morning it's a lot easier for me
to do that if i know i have it's class
in the morning or whatever and
if i don't really have a choice to do it
in my mind it's a million times easier
to do that thing versus if i have a
choice or if you know it's yeah i should
do it but i don't need to
it's a lot easier for me not to do it so
my question is how do i turn that wand
into a need
um thanks man and hopefully this can
make into the video
thanks
all right so you made it into the video
here we go turning a want into a
crushing need uh is one of the most
useful processes that you can master
and
when you understand that we don't get
what we want but we get what we need
then you begin to understand okay this
is something i want to learn how to
line up so i want to take this thing
that i want and isn't it need it really
is just a want and i want to figure out
the process of how i increase its level
of importance in my mind so one of the
most important things to understand
about the human brain is that the the
brain the conscious mind
will
work backwards to justify what it's done
so
the the human brain is absolutely
fascinating and it has a mechanism so i
talk about this thing called the physics
of being human like what does the brain
just do in and of itself and one of the
things that the brain does in and of
itself always and forever is it will
justify what happens there's this
amazing thing a study that was done on
people that have short-term memory loss
so that they cannot form new memories
they they have brain damage that makes
it impossible for them to form new
memories so a doctor will go in they
will have a pin on their hand they will
shake hands with the person it pokes
them person jerks their hand back now
remember they cannot form new memories
so that doctor jabs them and they're in
pain they pull their hand away
the doctor comes back five minutes later
the person does not remember meeting
them at all but they still won't shake
their hand
now when you ask them oh why won't you
shake my hand they will make [__] up and
they'll be like well um i've just always
had this problem with shaking people's
hands that are wearing white lab coats
which is total [__] five minutes ago
they were more than happy to shake that
person's hand so that is the conscious
mind needing to make sense of what's
going on in the subconscious mind
because the way that memories are stored
are very different so you have the
implicit in the explicit memory so
you've got something that's happening
consciously and subconsciously so the
short-term memory is not turned into
long-term memory and so they don't
remember why they're doing this thing
but the part of the
memory that's working based around the
pain and knowing what causes pain
stimulus realizes that this person
generates pain but the subconscious
speaks an emotion it doesn't speak in
language and so the rational logical
mind tries to then make sense of what is
going on so we're going to hijack that
to work for us here in this example
where we want to get hyped up about
something but we want it to be real so
we know that the mind is doing this and
yes we're totally hacking the mind yes
we're playing a bit of a game with
ourselves but it ends up having this
incredible impact so what i do is i
embody the passion that i want to feel
so like i'm doing now you can imagine if
you're sitting in a room with me i would
probably be speaking much more subdued
but
because i understand that the passion
that i'm feeling is infectious to other
people that if i can embody it then i
can get other people to feel it as well
now the crazy thing is is it works in a
loop and i actually begin to feel that
the response that i'm having is the
right amplitude so even if i'm merely
consciously turning the dial of
excitement up or whatever about the goal
that we have because i know that i want
to spring out of bed in the morning i'm
going to dial that up and say this thing
that i'm working towards it isn't a want
this is a need i've got to have this and
this is why i have to have it and i'm
going to create some logic that really
means something to me and i'll give you
an example at quest to show up every day
and to fight that hard to learn
manufacturing to spend my time repairing
equipment it was [__] crazy and there
were times it was so frustrating and i
knew for me to do something i didn't
want to do that i was going to have to
leverage that notion so i said going
into it how do i attach to building a
nutrition company
to something that i care intrinsically
about deeply about
and that thing became my mom and my
sister and so i said okay this is really
powerful because i can show up every day
and fight for my mom and my sister so
how do i associate my mom and my sister
to a nutrition company and the answer
was very simple my mom and my sister
were morbidly obese and i wanted to help
make food that they could choose based
on taste and it happened to be good for
them and if i could do that that they
would be in my life longer they would
live longer healthier lives they would
feel better so when a piece of equipment
broke down or i was dealing with
something incredibly frustrating or i
was working insane hours it was just hey
i'm doing this for my mom and my sister
and i would embody that i would tell
people that i would feel it i would get
amped up the way that i'm doing right
now i would literally say things like
this like a crazed man and it
began to infuse so that over time six
months 12 months it was like i really
felt like this was a crusade for my mom
and my sister and
that is so powerful the ability to take
something that you care deeply about
marry it to a goal that you care about
so that you have this emotional
resonance with that thing
is very very powerful so that's the
brain hack that you're going to use to
get yourself super excited
all right there it is next up
my name is nils macquarie and i live in
san miguel de la mexico and i'm a camera
coach i help people not just feel
confident on camera but to be
interesting and engaging when they're
working with their audience
the trouble is
a lot of us are working social media
and we literally get sucked into the
exact type of content that we create
so you could be uploading a video and
you're about to upload it and then you
see something interesting and lose a
half an hour and then think what was i
doing
oh yeah i was gonna upload a video
so
what's your recommendation to someone
who has to work around social media to
make sure they stay on the content
creation side and don't get sucked into
the consumer side
would love your thoughts on that
all right here we go there's two things
that are going to help you out number
one rules i don't think people
understand the power of rules where you
have rules in your life and you abide by
those rules so if you know that
consuming content is going to be a
problem for you then we're going to want
to make sure that we
limit that that we say that we have a
rule around the amount of consumption
that we do and or that we say i don't
consume content between these hours and
i allow myself to consume content during
these hours so maybe you allow yourself
to consume content only the last hour
before you go to bed or if that spikes
your anxiety some other period in the
day but you confine it to a very limited
period and that is extremely beneficial
have the rule stick to the rule the
other part is to audit your time now
this is where we get into reward and
punishment so you have to be able to
reward yourself when you stick to your
rules when you make good use of your
time and you need to be able to punish
yourself
emotionally let's not get uh out of
control here and i will bring all the
baggage of all i've talked so much about
this twenty percent of your time is
punishment eighty percent is rewarding
yourself as being good to yourself
focusing on the good the beautiful the
light energy
never let you let yourself spend more
than 20 percent of your time in the dark
energy but it is very powerful and
people that fail to leverage the dark
side of the force um will never achieve
what somebody who can leverage both
things can achieve but you have to be
very very careful it's a corrosive
energy it will make you feel like [__]
if you overplay that hand so you have to
be very very careful now having said
that you're going to have to get good at
this so that when you're abiding by your
rules and you do the audit and you
realize well i've really killed it i've
made good use of this time i've actually
made progress right so we don't want to
just reward ourselves for our intention
we want to reward ourselves for whether
or not we actually made progress and if
we're making progress then we're going
to feel really good about that and if
we're not making progress but we really
did give it our all we're going to feel
good about that as well because
ultimately we value ourselves for the
sincere pursuit
but you look at that and you say did i
sincerely pursue this yes did i get the
actual desired outcome let's say no cool
then i'm going to formulate a new
hypothesis and i'm going to try
something new if we realize in the audit
we actually didn't make good use of that
time we're not going to hide from that
we're going to own it and we're going to
make adjustments just the way that we
would if we realized that we didn't get
the outcome that we wanted we're going
to make adjustments so one of the most
important rules that i've ever had in my
life is getting out of bed in 10 minutes
or less and the way that i would
celebrate myself very simple stuff if i
got out of bed in 10 minutes or less i
was like man you said you were going to
do it and you did it that's exactly how
i would talk to myself and i would just
really feel good about that and i would
encourage that myself like hey man you
said you were going to do it here we go
get some momentum go do your thing i
would start doing it something that was
you know goal pursuit is honorable and
exciting so now i'm doing something i'm
excited about i'm doing something i
really believe in and i
am doing it precisely because i got out
of bed when i said i was going to get
out of bed and then if i audit that and
i didn't let's say that i got out of bed
in 10 minutes and 30 seconds and i would
go to my wife and i'd say look i need to
confess um i didn't get out of bed in 10
minutes or less i got out in the 11th
minute or i got out in 12 minutes you
know whatever the case may be i remember
there were times where like right before
i was about to get out of bed i would
just get lost in a train of thought and
would end up laying in bed for far too
long and i would tell her hey i ended up
laying in bed for you know six or seven
extra minutes now that may seem
ridiculous but i used to lay in bed for
four and five hours a day so that was an
absolute game changer for me so rules
and audit rules and audit reward and
punish you do that and you will be well
on your way
next up
hey tom this is ali from morgan hill
california
i'm really struggling to commit any time
to reading i started the year
with a goal to read at least 12 books
and so far i only achieved four
i fully believe that
knowledge is power and i need to read
and educate myself to achieve my goals
but despite that i keep procrastinating
my reading time
if you have any advice i uh i would
really appreciate it thank you all right
man
we are now into my absolute obsession
which is skills have utility
the only reason to read those books is
because on the other side of that is
usable skill set there's something that
you want to build there's something that
you want to create there's something you
want to be able to do there's people you
want to be able to outperform there's
something that you want to accomplish
that requires you to read those books
now once you have that
and once you've embodied that enthusiasm
and taken that want from a want to a
need now all of a sudden it's like you
couldn't stop me from reading that book
because i know by reading that book and
really using what's in it i'm going to
be able to do something i couldn't do
before reading that book skills have
utility okay so the idea is just to get
obsessed with what it is that you want
to create and then it's are you reading
the books that give you the ability to
go and create that it's what i call the
only belief that matters once you
believe
that time and energy
put into gaining a skill set
actually brings you improved skill set
then of course you're going to pour
yourself into doing that so one of two
things is true for you reading may
trigger your insecurities and you feel
like i'm so [__] dumb i'm reading
this book i have to read the same page
over and over and over what is wrong
with me i'm never going to get through
this and so you get this negative loop
going in your head so every time you
pick up a book it's you having to stare
nakedly at your inadequacies you're
having to deal with that negative
[__] voice in your head that's
telling you that you're not good enough
and so reading is some flashback to all
of these insecurities that you almost
certainly developed in childhood and so
it's like oh god i don't want to face
that or it's there's not actually
anything that you're really that excited
about and you're kind of picking books
at random and it's like people told you
that you should read it and they said
it's kind of cool and so you're reading
the book because you think that you
should and you have this goal
all of those things are going to
send you into a death spiral
so one focus on the only belief that
matters to believe to the core of your
being that the average human being is
designed
to learn and grow okay then it's what do
we point that learning and growing app
because we know we're going to be able
to do it maybe some people do it more
easily than you what the [__] does that
matter absolutely nothing because most
people won't apply themselves and then
if you think of yourself as valuable not
for being smart being good being worthy
reading fast
getting better than other people and
instead you think of it as i want to
sincerely pursue something that matters
to me and i'm gonna reward myself for
spending time reading that book and it's
okay if i'm uh not a fast reader it's
okay if i learn more slowly than other
people on a long enough timeline i
really can learn this stuff i really can
get better and i really can influence
the real world and i want to influence
the real world because of this goal that
i'm trying to achieve and this goal
really matters to me it's exciting it's
honorable and i'm going to give it my
everything if you do that then you will
find yourself
wanting those books coveting it and
people won't be able to tear you away
so there it is
all right
who's up next hello my name is peter
sarore i am from california from the
city of altadena and my question to you
tom
in regards to procrastination is i have
been unemployed for close to a year
it'll be a year in february
um and
i thought i would actually get up on my
feet within a few months and start
working on my youtube channel i just got
certified to be a personal trainer so i
thought it would just
happen right away it hasn't and maybe
i'm not trying hard enough and i feel
like i can do more or i can try to
do
virtual workouts or just
you know upload content however i'm
finding myself daily stuck in bed and
not being able to get up early getting
out at 12 feeling sorry for myself it's
been really really tough i don't know
how to beat this procrastination that um
it has me feeling stagnant paralyzed i
don't know what my next move will be so
if i can please get your help and what i
should do next or how to take action i
really need your help and i really
appreciate it thank you so much
all right few things kill productivity
and inspire procrastination more
aggressively than issues of insecurity a
lack of self-worth
and this goes back to what we were
talking about in terms of
the only belief that matters
a huge breakthrough for me was
realizing that i was not special i was
not smarter than most people i wasn't
more worthy i was average i was
hopelessly average
now that may sound negative but what it
did was it let me off the hook
and once i no longer needed to protect
this notion of um
i am who i am i was born a certain way
and all of my value in life is around
walling that off and making sure that
the way that i was born makes me proud
of who i am and makes me successful in
the real world and when i let go of that
and realize oh wait i'm playing the
wrong game the game i should be playing
is how good can i get
so instead of being something it's about
becoming something and
by
needing to believe that i could be
something better than other people or i
could become something faster than other
people
that was also a dangerous game i just
needed to know i'm the average human now
that doesn't mean that i don't want to
beat people i don't want to be better
than and i know that's very
controversial for people and that is a
discussion for another day i will
[__] put chips on the fact that if
you're not prepared to compete you've
got a whole nother problem but we'll set
that aside for now since i know i just
raised some people's hackles um and i
will say that
for now what you want to focus on is
you're hopelessly average amazing and
now it's about recognizing that the
average human being is designed to learn
and grow and to get better and so now
it's a question of how do we put enough
time and energy into something to
actually get better at that thing and
that really is the key that we want to
focus on so shifting away from um being
something stepping into the idea of
becoming something
building all of your sense of self-worth
and pride around doing hard things
rather than accomplishing something
grand like you're showing up every day
you're leaving it all out on the field
you were doing hard things you were
working towards something and
playing the long game and that's the key
here so you said that when you started
you thought this was all just going to
happen much more quickly and you're
getting demoralized and i'm sure that
the longer this goes the more sort of in
this death spiral you are and the more
likely you are to not actually go and do
that thing
and you want to recognize that this is a
game of putting out
maximum effort for an obscene amount of
time before things click over it's crazy
how long and hard you have to go with
something and then here is the really
[__] hard thing you have to be
getting better like you have to actually
be improving and so that just brings us
back to that investment in changing our
potential into skill set because skill
set has utility and we want to just be
in that loop all the time all the time
one foot in front of the other rules
about getting out of bed in the morning
rules about going after something
rewarding ourselves for the sincere
pursuit of that thing valuing ourselves
for becoming something instead of being
something and then always always always
focused on the long term and
understanding that just you've got to
put that energy in over and over and
over constantly trying to get new skills
new skills not checking off a list that
you read that book or that you created
that video but saying what skill am i
trying to get better at what am i trying
to learn what do i need to do in order
to create the saying that i want to
create and then the juice the game the
obsession has got to be the pursuit of
that thing the pursuit of that thing so
that your hype on yourself for showing
up every day and saying i'm gonna be the
world's greatest online trainer plain
and simple for me that's so [__]
exciting like because remember i don't
value myself for being the greatest
trainer of all time i value myself for
trying with everything that i have
sincerely
to become that person
and as long as i'm having fun doing that
which by the way i highly encourage you
should love your [__] life then as
long as i'm having fun doing that then i
get what i get but at least i'm doing
what i think is the very purpose of life
which is to transform potential
into usable skill
so
let yourself off the hook
don't worry about
whether this is hard or it's taking a
very long time just invest in yourself
every day unabashedly going after it
finding joy in the process of turning
potential into skills
all right
and next
hi tom my name is john lagrange i'm 32
i'm from alberta canada i am a power
engineer and currently i am working on
creating an online business
procrastination for me is indecision
trying to figure out what's most
important and act on that
lately i've been working on
writing my goals down
and even then i feel like every time i
have a very good idea
what i believe to be a very good idea
something that i feel like i'd be
passionate about
i write that down i work on it i'm very
active in it
and then often i get another great idea
and i divert my energy towards that and
i procrastinate on the next thing
and it has caused me
many many many delays
and
indecision it's
it's a challenge
and that's what i'm focusing on so for
me procrastination is indecision
constantly waffling back and forth on
what i feel is the right thing to work
on
and
if i could figure out how to work on
that and how to narrow it down and
direct all my energy at
one topic that i feel is
most valuable and most critical
i think that's where i'll find my
success
hopefully you can help
oh i can help now the question becomes
um will you find the passion and the
enthusiasm for the process that i'm
about to lay out for you because it is
one of iteration it's brutal
the only thing that i think people
should fear is standing still so i've
often said that running a thousand miles
an hour in the wrong direction is better
than standing still and then people say
tom that's [__] now you're you know
so far down the road you've got to redo
all that [__] and start moving in the
other direction and that's where i
suppose the analogy lets me down because
the reality is when you're running in
the wrong direction you're not moving
away from getting something right you
are the only time that happens is when
you refuse to analyze the data
now if somebody is closing their mind
because the farther they go in the wrong
direction they're investing in that
position they're telling people that
they're right and they're doubling down
yes that moronic behavior is creating a
bigger and bigger problem for you
but if when you're running in the wrong
direction you're like hey i am prepared
the second i have information that tells
me that this is the wrong direction i
will learn from that and i will
immediately start going in the right
direction now the good news is you
actually don't have to retread all that
ground that you went on what you're
doing is now you're armed with a new
piece of information that's going to let
you as henry ford says begin again more
intelligently so the full henry ford
quote is failure is merely the
opportunity to begin again more
intelligently so what i want people to
understand is failure mistakes all of
that is the most information rich data
stream you will ever encounter okay let
me say that again failure is the most
information rich data stream you will
ever encounter you go and you do
something wrong and you realize why it
was wrong now once you understand oh my
god now i know why that was never going
to work in the beginning
now i can get going the way that i need
to go and by the way that new way that
you're going to go is almost certainly
also going to be a mistake and you're
going to learn oh [__] okay here's
another piece of the puzzle and now
you're going in the right tur the writer
direction the more accurate direction
the more useful direction and you're
going to get another piece of
information okay so you want to start
thinking of mistakes and failure the way
that artificial intelligence thinks of
it it's called a sample so this wrong
direction is merely a sample you tried
something it's going to give you a piece
of data that piece of data is going to
inform your next move which is going to
give you a piece of data which is going
to inform your next move so instead of
thinking about these as right or wrong
mistakes
just
[__] decide okay let me say it again
just decide the only thing that's
stopping you is you're worried that it's
wrong or you're worried there's a better
way let me make it easy for you it is
wrong there is a better way but you're
never going to know until you start
moving i remember marie forleo came on
my show one time she said you can't
think your way to understanding
something you just have to act i was
like that's [__] brilliant it is so
true and her example was a dance class
she said she learned more in 60 seconds
of actually dancing at a dance class
about whether or not she wanted to be a
dancer then she had in years of thinking
about it the same is true in business
you're going to learn infinitely more
about whether something works by just
[__] trying it then you are by
thinking about it and then from there
there's something called ice where
you're going to
it's basically weighing the impact of
something versus how hard it is to
implement
and so you find that sweet spot of
what's the thing that takes the least
amount of energy for the biggest amount
of impact and that's how you prioritize
and so you can also just put things in
order of that and just blindly follow
ice and say ah that i learned this from
that i learned that from this ooh this
one was a total bust but i got this
piece of information and then you will
get better and better and better at ice
as you go but everybody wants their [__]
to be amazing from the jump it's not
it's all going to suck most of your
ideas are going to be moronic most of
your execution is going to be what a
buffoon could do but from all of that
you start to actually get good and
that's the key
mistakes are the most information rich
data stream you will encounter so go
make some
all right
who's up
greetings tom and everyone at impact
theory i am apology
radio and television host voice talent
and author
okay so procrastination
i could have five things that i intend
on getting done throughout a particular
day and i'll get maybe number one maybe
number two done and then the phone rings
and i'll justify in my head why i feel i
have to answer that phone call because
nine times out of ten the phone call is
relevant to what it is that i do it
could be a producer or a guest or
something of that nature so it's
relative to what i have to do
but it's not like there's a deadline
like i've got to answer this call
because it's in reference to a deadline
it's just in reference to what i do
next thing i know
half the day is gone i haven't completed
what it is that i need to complete so
what are your suggestions for helping me
to stay focused when that phone rings to
i don't know ignore it help me out tom i
appreciate you
all right boys and girls here is a psa
from your dear friend tom
turn off all notifications turn them off
all of them in my world unless your ass
is dying in fact even if you're dying
you can't get a hold of me i am
literally unreachable so the only way to
reach me i wish you guys could see uh
the person that's helping me produce
this episode right now who is nodding
because she knows how hard it is to get
a hold of me uh that is the god's honest
truth and i do that because i determine
what my priorities are because i know
what my goal is i'm in that
mistake-laden information-rich data
stream i know what i need to be doing i
need to try something learn from it
reformulate my hypothesis try again i
need to be in that stream of action
action man not talking not uh
pontificating
i need to have a goal
i need to
know what the important things are that
are going to lead me to that goal and
then i need to be doing doing doing
every day so many people let other
people control their [__] priorities
that's
madness to me it is [__] crazy i
cannot believe that people check email
before they do something do you know how
many emails that i've responded to in
the last
let's make it crazy in the last month
okay think about it
how many emails has tom we have a staff
of like 21 people how many emails have i
responded to
five maybe in the last month 10 if it's
just like crazy and i'm forgetting
something that's in the last month now
do i miss out on opportunities because i
don't check email absolutely but on
balance am i way better off controlling
my day controlling what i put my time
and energy into the way i say it to
people is i want you to really ask
yourself the question when you check an
email or in this case you answer a call
what are the odds
that the person on the other end of that
phone knows exactly what you should be
doing at that moment to reach your goals
and they happen to call at exactly the
right moment
the answer is zero there is a zero
percent chance that that person knows
exactly what you need to be doing and is
calling at exactly the right moment so i
don't know if it's fomo or if it's just
the desire to not have to struggle with
what people are struggling with that
makes them respond to
notifications but
[__] notifications i have them all shut
off on my phone not i literally i could
be staring at my phone i wouldn't know
if somebody's called me i have to click
into the phone app to see if somebody
called i have to click into my text app
to see if somebody's trying to reach me
like i just don't [__] with
notifications that [__] is crazy i don't
let other people control my time i don't
let them control my focus
set aside some period at the end of the
day or something where you go through
and look at email i get it people are
going to look at email but jesus you
should work
i'm going to say if you haven't clocked
six hours
doing your thing
controlling your own agenda before you
start letting other people influence
your agenda there's a real problem and i
get it i'm even talking to people out
there like my sister who i love more
than you can imagine but oh dear god the
amount of meetings that she has i'm like
this is crazy you can't do this you you
cannot do this this is
nuts
so
boys and girls no notifications you got
to get some structure on your day
it's madness you should know better than
anybody what you need to do to reach
your goals
and that's that
i don't want to get off this horse like
i want to keep going i could really get
crazy but i'll stop there all right that
was it that's our last question all
right boys and girls there it is stop
procrastinating there is [__] that you
want to accomplish in this world there
are
goals out there that trust me if you
spend the time leaning into them they
will matter to you they will matter a
lot it is only a two criteria um
two-part criteria for determining your
goal
one does it excite you
two is it honorable does it serve you
and other people if it serves other
people as well as yourself and you are
[__] amped about it
all the other stuff is going to start
falling into place the putting rules in
place springing out of bed in the
morning
really going after the acquisition of
skills facing your inadequacies head-on
turning off all your notifications not
letting other people control your time
knowing what the most important thing is
you could be working on in this moment
because you've failed so many times
before without a loss of self without a
loss of enthusiasm you know
what the thing is that you should be
trying to see if it works next
and when you get that magical formula
put in place and you wake up every day
attacking your goals because you want to
be the greatest of all time
the amount that you can achieve with
your life is extraordinary even if you
never become one of the greats
because it doesn't matter
what matters is the sincere pursuit
but you're not sincerely pursuing
something if you're laying in bed if
you're talking on the phone if you're
answering an email you're not
sincerely pursuing your goals that is
the greatest joy that i could offer to
anybody is to really believe in what
you're pursuing and then to leave it all
out on the field the physics of being
human trust me there is a deep seated
program running in your brain that wants
you to do hard [__] in the service of
something that you believe in and when
you start doing that baby
life gets [__] awesome
all right everybody thank you for
joining me thank you for the questions
it's so huge and i know that people put
vulnerability into those bad boys and
i'm eternally grateful as is hopefully
everybody else watching guys until next
time be legendary take care
be talking all about one of my favorite
topics in this world how to overcome any
obstacle no matter what it is you're
trying to do in your life i promise you
the ability to stay in a solution
oriented mindset and to go over under
through around whatever the case may be
any obstacle that is going to be the key
to winning